Variation Tool
==============

The variation tool makes use of the road-generation library and
generates several variations of an OpenDRIVE road network that is
provided by a template file. The main goal was to create an easy to use
syntax while allowing the user to specify constraints for the output
scenarios.

Usage
-----

The tool can be accessed via the command line:

**On Liunx:**

.. code:: bash

   variation -fname <filename> 

| **On Windows:**
| *Note: we strongly recommend to use a Linux system. Windows support is
  experimental.*

.. code:: bash

   python -m variation -fname <filename> 

A variety of parameters and flaggs can be specified:

-  ``-fname`` ``<input file path>`` input template file
-  ``-n`` ``<integer>`` number of generated outputs
-  ``-o`` ``<string>`` output file name
-  ``-e`` ``<file path>`` generate an example template file to location
-  ``-h --help`` display the help message
-  ``-k`` keep ``.xml`` files with the logical road description
-  ``-s`` suppress most console output

Template File
-------------

The variation tool takes a template file as an input which extends the
syntax of the road-generation library `input
scheme <../xml/input.xsd>`__. Additionally, a ``<vars> ... </vars>`` tag
declares variables that will be drawn from a random distribution. The
variables are provided in a ``<var> ... </var>`` tag and use attributes
to define the distribution from which these variables will be drawn. The
random variables can then be referenced in the description of the road
network.

Examples for the definition of stochastic variabes:

.. code:: xml

   <vars>
       <var id="transDepVar" type="lindep" dp="depVar/2" /> 
       <var id="depVar" type="lindep" dp="uniformVar*0.3 + normalVar" />        
       <var id="uniformVar" type="uniform" min="100" max="150" />        
       <var id="normalVar" type="normal" mu="1.57" sd="0.12" />     
   </vars>

These variables can then be referenced by their name, surrounded by
``${...}``, e.g.:

.. code:: xml

   <referenceLine>
       <line length="${uniformVar}"/>
   </referenceLine>

An example template file can be generated by using the ``-e`` flag.

.. code:: bash

   variation -e

Variable Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For each variable we need to specify an ``id`` and ``type`` attribute.
There are three types of variables that require different attributes:

-  ``normal`` distribution with mean value ``mu`` and standard deviation
   ``sd``.
-  ``uniform`` distribution with a ``min`` and a ``max`` value.
-  ``lindep`` a linearly dependent variable that uses an equation string
   as ``dp`` attribute. The equation can reference other variables
   transitively.
